This directory consists of code for OPTIKA, an image processing event at IT-BHU,
woth a good & challenging problem statement.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Build a semi-autonomous Image processing robot which can traverse in an arena, locate and disarm bombs.
The robot has to navigate in the arena to detect the mine sites and diffuse them by blinking an LED. 
(Different bombsites will be differentiated on the basis of colour 
which can be detected by an on board camera).

RULES AND REGULATIONS

GENERAL RULES:

1. A team may have a maximum of 5 members.
2. No two teams can have common participants.
3. The participants from different institutes/colleges can form a team together.
4. Right spirit of participation is expected from the participants.


EVENT:

1. The robot will be placed at the starting point in arena before the beginning of the run.
2. Firstly the robot has to navigate to the red/blue squares in order to obtain the bomb diffusion kit. A robot can carry only one diffusion kit at a time.
Any one bomb diffusion kit is to be obtained (colour of the squares may change at the time of event).Procuring the kit is symbolized by a halt at the square for 5 seconds and glowing of a green LED.
3. After obtaining the kit, the robot has to detect the mine sites (red/blue coloured circles-colour may change at the time of event.)to diffuse them. A robot can diffuse only those mines that are of the same colour as of the obtained diffusing kit.
4. Diffusing of mines includes detecting the corresponding coloured circle, a halt at the circle for 2 seconds and glowing of a red LED.
5. The green square is the Life Line Square-which can be obtained by navigating to the square, glowing a blue LED for 2 seconds and then a red LED for 2 seconds. Obtaining a life-line allows you to surpass your incapability to diffuse a mine, but it could be utilised only once.
6. The robot can't traverse any undiffused mine else there would be negative marks.
7. The robot has to reach the end point diffusing all the mines of the chosen colour.
8. The total time allotted is 30 mins.


VIDEO FEED:

1. The video feeds will be given through USB cables connected to the top mounted camera, all provided by the Robotics team.
2. The camera drivers will be provided to the team at the time of registration in the venue.
3. In case the contestant team wishes to use their own camera, they are free to do so. The placing of the overhead camera if provided by the participant will be done by the robotics team.


DETECTION:

The LED should blink (as perceived by a human eye) for a minimum of 2 seconds to indicate the detection of a bomb.


QUALIFICATION AND SCORING:

1. Points will be awarded based on the time taken to reach the end point, locating/detecting and defusing the mine sites.
2. Points will be deducted on damaging the arena or traversing any undiffused mine.
3. If the time runs out while the bot is in the arena, points will be given on the following basis:
•	No. of mine sites diffused corresponding to the colour of diffusion kit.
•	Procurement and use of life-line.
4. Manual intervention of any kind will not be allowed during the run of the bot, the teams may however hold the laptops in their hands, which will not be considered as manual intervention.
5. Only one participant will be allowed to hold the laptop and enter the arena.
Each team will be given three runs during qualification stage and five runs during the Final Stage. 
6. The robot can be powered on-board as well as off-board.
7. Both on-board and off-board processing is allowed.
8. No kind of external control will be allowed.
9. All circuitry and sensory equipment should be placed on the robot adhering to the ROBOT SPECIFICATIONS.
10. Participants will have to bring their own programmers, cables and software. No programmers will be supplied.
11. The Decision of the Robotics Team is FINAL AND BINDING.


KEY FOR ARENA:

Red/Blue Squares: Bomb Diffusion Kit
Red/Blue Circles: Mine sites
Green Square: Life-Line Square


SPECIFICATION:

Robot Specifications: 30x25x25 cms
Arena Specifications: 8x8 feet

All the given dimensions can have a tolerance of 5% unless specified otherwise.


POWER SUPPLY:

• A fixed 220V power supply will be provided by the Robotics Team. Participants may choose to use their own power sources. 
• The power source used need not be on-board.


NAVIGATION:

• The navigation can be done through image processing using a 2GHz processor.
• The provided video feeds can be used to navigate through the arena.
• Cameras, optical sensors and infrared sensors can be installed in the robot for better manoeuvring capabilities.

